The Angular Material tooltip provides a text label that is displayed when the user hovers over or longpresses an element.

Positioning
The tooltip will be displayed below the element but this can be configured using the matTooltipPosition input. The tooltip can be displayed above, below, left, or right of the element. By default the position will be below. If the tooltip should switch left/right positions in an RTL layout direction, then the positions before and after should be used instead of left and right, respectively.

Position	Description
above	Always display above the element
below	Always display beneath the element
left	Always display to the left of the element
right	Always display to the right of the element
before	Display to the left in left-to-right layout and to the right in right-to-left layout
after	Display to the right in left-to-right layout and to the left in right-to-left layout
Based on the position in which the tooltip is shown, the .mat-tooltip-panel element will receive a CSS class that can be used for style (e.g. to add an arrow). The possible classes are mat-tooltip-panel-above, mat-tooltip-panel-below, mat-tooltip-panel-left, mat-tooltip-panel-right.

To display the tooltip relative to the mouse or touch that triggered it, use the matTooltipPositionAtOrigin input. With this setting turned on, the tooltip will display relative to the origin of the trigger rather than the host element. In cases where the tooltip is not triggered by a touch event or mouse click, it will display the same as if this setting was turned off.

 Showing and hiding
By default, the tooltip will be immediately shown when the user's mouse hovers over the tooltip's trigger element and immediately hides when the user's mouse leaves.

On mobile, the tooltip is displayed when the user longpresses the element and hides after a delay of 1500ms.

Disabling the tooltip from showing
To completely disable a tooltip, set matTooltipDisabled. While disabled, a tooltip will never be shown.

 Accessibility
MatTooltip adds an aria-describedby description that provides a reference to a visually hidden element containing the tooltip's message. This provides screen-readers the information needed to read out the tooltip's contents when the end-user focuses on tooltip's trigger. The element referenced by aria-describedby is not the tooltip itself, but instead an invisible copy of the tooltip content that is always present in the DOM.
Avoid interactions that exclusively show a tooltip with pointer events like click and mouseenter. Always ensure that keyboard users can perform the same set of actions available to mouse and touch users.